In the 11th century B.C.E.,
the nation of Syria
would often attack Israel,
capturing many and making many their slaves
—even children.
Notice how the Bible describes
one of these raids
in 2 Kings chapter 5.
Second Kings chapter 5, and in verse 1,
we are told that Naaman
was the army chief of the Syrians.
He was a mighty warrior,
but he was also very sick with leprosy.
But notice verse 2:
“On one of their raids,
“the Syrians had taken captive
from the land of Israel
a little girl who became
a servant to Naaman’s wife.”
Can you picture this little girl
being ripped away from her parents?
It was frightening for her.
She was taken to a strange land
with people that were intimidating,
and they worshipped many false gods.
In that very difficult circumstance,
how was this little girl
required to exercise strong faith?
Please note the answer to this question
in the following video.
I remember the day the soldiers took me away.
I had never felt more alone.
My home, my friends,
everything I knew was gone.
But I still had Jehovah.
The master of the house was very sick.
He was in pain.
Elisha could help him.
I had heard about Elisha’s miracles.
He had even raised the dead.
I knew Elisha could cure him,
and Jehovah gave me the courage to speak up.
Despite being away from her parents,
this little girl exercised strong faith.
Where did she get that faith?
Well, no doubt her parents had inculcated
love and trust for Jehovah in her.
But she also had things
that were happening in her lifetime
that would build her faith.
For example,
she would have known
about the miracles of the prophet Elisha
and how, with Jehovah’s spirit,
he performed many miracles,
including raising a little boy from the dead.
This little girl could have reasoned,
‘Why, if Jehovah
can raise a little boy from death,
he can certainly cure
my master from his disease.’
Well, what did she do
with this faith and trust?
She spoke up courageously.
Notice her words to her mistress
as recorded at 2 Kings 5:3:
“She said to her mistress:
“‘If only my lord would visit
the prophet in Samaria!
Then he would cure him of his leprosy.’”
Such boldness!
And because she spoke up,
Naaman went to Israel,
got in touch with Elisha the prophet,
humbled himself,
listened to the instructions,
and was completely cured of the leprosy.
But something else very important occurred.
Because of Naaman’s coming
to know about Jehovah,
what did he declare?
At 2 Kings 5:15, he said:
“Now I know that there is no God
anywhere in all the earth but in Israel.”
And Naaman also vowed
that he would never serve
any other god but Jehovah.
How happy Naaman and his entire household
was when he went home!
Not only was he cured of his leprosy
but now he was
a happy, joyful servant of Jehovah.
Well, it’s not just in Bible times
that good experiences
like this have occurred.
As you watch the following dramatization,
notice how one of our sisters
showed strong faith,
even under the most difficult
of circumstances.
I was taken from my home,
my husband,
and my spiritual family.
I was imprisoned for my faith.
It was another world.
It wasn’t easy staying strong.
Every time I asked for a Bible,
the answer was no.
But God’s Word was already in my heart.
So I did what I love the most;
I talked about God’s Kingdom.
Many of those I preached to
seemed cold at first,
but genuine love and the warmth of God’s Word
just seemed to melt their hearts.
Sometimes speaking up
took more courage than I thought I had,
but not more courage
than Jehovah could give me.
It was hard to look
beyond the locks and uniforms.
But God’s will is that “all sorts of people”
learn about him.
So I spoke about my God, Jehovah.
I knew that even behind prison bars,
Jehovah would give me the strength
to help others.
At this point, we’d like to address
our young ones in the audience.
You too can have strong faith
like the little Israelite girl
and tell others about Jehovah.
Remember the words of Romans 10:13, 14.
It is so important
that people know about Jehovah.
But how can they know about him
and gain salvation
if there’s no one to preach?
You too can become a bold
and faithful preacher of the good news.
How?
By taking in Bible truths
and building up strong faith in your heart,
and then you’ll be able to do
like our sister did in the dramatization.
Do you remember what she said?
‘I had God’s Word in my heart.
‘And as a result, even in prison
‘when I was surrounded
by all those difficulties,
‘I did what I love to do;
I talked about God’s Kingdom.’
Another thing you can do
is pray for more courage and faith.
Do you remember what our sister said?
‘It seemed that, at times,
to speak up required more courage than I had,
but not more courage
than Jehovah could give me.’
So dear young ones,
don’t be afraid to talk about Jehovah
and the truth to your schoolmates,
to your unbelieving relatives,
to your teachers.
Good results will happen.
For example, there is an experience
of a schoolteacher here in the United States
who had been searching
for the basic questions
as to the meaning of life,
but she could not find them.
But then a 12-year-old student at school
asked this teacher three questions.
The first question:
“Do you know
that I’m one of Jehovah’s Witnesses?”
“Yes.”
“Would you like to learn more
about Jehovah’s Witnesses?”
“Yes.”
The third question:
“Where do you live?”
Our 12-year-old sister
started a study with her teacher.
The teacher loved what she was hearing,
made excellent progress, and was baptized.
That sister, the former schoolteacher,
has been serving Jehovah now
for many decades.
In fact, for the last 40 years,
she has been serving as a member
of the United States Bethel family.
So blessings come
when we speak up and show strong faith.
Remember,
in the case of the little Israelite girl,
Naaman would have never gone to Israel
if she had not spoken up.
And as a result, he was cured,
but he also became a servant of Jehovah.
So in harmony with the strong faith
of that captive Israelite girl,
may Jehovah give all of us
the courage we need
to display our strong faith
even under the most stressful
and frightening circumstances.
Brother Geoffrey Jackson will now consider
the next talk of this symposium,
“Imitate Women of Strong Faith!
—Mary the Mother of Jesus.”